docs: Add Tusky migration guide (#2792)
MystenLabs/walrus: docs/content/tusky-migration-guide.mdx

---
title: Tusky Migration Guide

> description: During the Tusky sunsetting period, you can continue reading your data and migrate to using Walrus directly or via alternative tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: During the Tusky sunsetting period, you can continue reading your data and migrate to using Walrus directly or through alternative tooling.
```

During this sunset period, you must:

1. Confirm your Tusky sunsetting window.

2. Request your encryption keys from Tusky if you use the password protected keys stored by them.

3. Begin downloading your datasets.

4. Decide which migration option fits your use case best.

5. Complete re-upload where required.

6. Validate reads and access patterns on Walrus.

7. Update applications or workflows as needed.

## Immediate first steps 

1. Confirm your sunset window.
   - You have at least 30 days of guaranteed read access via Tusky from the date of their shut down announcement.
   - **Do not wait until the last week of this 30 day window**.
2. Take inventory of your data. Having an inventory of your data will help determine which migration option fits best.
   - Make a list of:
     - [Vaults and buckets](https://docs.tusky.io/http-api#tag/vaults/get/vaults)
     - [Blob IDs or file paths](https://docs.tusky.io/http-api#tag/blobs/get/blobs)
     - Encryption keys
   - Estimate the approximate total size of your data.

> 3. Request your encryption keys from Tusky now if you use the [password protected keys they store](https://github.com/tusky-io/ts-sdk?tab=readme-ov-file#encryption).

Reviewer: maybe rearrange so that sentence leads with "If you use password protected keys..." just to get attention. but also fine as is imo

3. Re-upload to Walrus
  - Use the [CLI](/docs/usage/client-cli), [SDK](/docs/usage/sdks), or [web API](/docs/usage/web-api).

  - For encryption, either:
    - Use a third-party library (like [CryptoES](https://www.npmjs.com/package/crypto-es) or [Node’s Crypto Module](https://medium.com/@tony.infisical/guide-to-nodes-crypto-module-for-encryption-decryption-65c077176980) for symmetric key based encryption before upload. You can optionally use the keys that you might have retrieved from Tusky.
    - Integrate Seal as part of your write flow. This requires a Move-based access policy and integration with key server providers: https://seal-docs.wal.app/GettingStarted/.

## Migration option 2: Direct Walrus access through blob or quilt patch IDs

1. Extract blob or patch IDs and metadata from Tusky (through their app, API, or SDK).

2. Fetch blobs or quilt patches directly from Walrus using:
  - [Walrus CLI](/docs/usage/client-cli)
  - [Walrus HTTP API](/docs/usage/web-api)
  - [Walrus SDKs](/docs/usage/sdks)
  - [Walrus Quilt](/docs/usage/quilt)

3. Validate integrity and availability of the data.

>   - You might have to decrypt your data using encryption keys that you have retrieved from Tusky. Make sure you request for those before their service is shut down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You might have to decrypt your data using encryption keys that you have retrieved from Tusky. Make sure you request these **before** their service is shut down.
```
